---
title: "Advancing timely and reliable evidence synthesis in the era of COVID-19: A novel method for including preprints in systematic reviews"
collection: talks
type: "Conference talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-03-28-ENAR
venue: "ENAR 2022"
date: 2022-03-28
location: "Houston, TX"
---

In December 2019, an unprecedented outbreak of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) emerged and quickly developed into a global pandemic. Profoundly affected by this pandemic, the scientific community has aimed to disseminate knowledge and research findings at a faster rate. As of September 6, 2021, there were more than 165,000 manuscripts available on COVID-19. Among these manuscripts, about 15% are posted on preprint servers and are publicly accessible without prior peer review. Preprints benefit the scientific community through timely sharing of research findings and should be considered for inclusion in systematic literature reviews when synthesizing evidence for new and emerging threats. However, their heterogeneous quality makes their inclusion challenging. To tackle this problem, we developed an evidence synthesis approach that accounts for the publication probability of the preprints and corrects for potential publication bias. Specifically, we propose a two-stage approach. Stage A incorporates preprints in the meta-analysis with restriction or imputation with weights based on a confidence score - the probability that the preprint will eventually be published; Stage B quantifies and corrects for potential publication/reporting bias. This two-stage procedure has been validated using two case studies on the effectiveness of COVID-19 treatments –hydroxychloroquine and corticosteroids. Our proposed method provides a strategy to incorporate preprints into systematic reviews and meta-analyses and may be broadly applicable to other areas in biomedicine to inform timely and reliable evidence synthesis.
